Dear Mom.
The weather in Tokyo is cool,
but it's hotter than the Tohoku region.
Today is the third day of the week-long training camp.
We're almost at the turning point.
Go!
So hot...
Saying "hot" is banned!
Everyone seems to be getting fatigued.
Also, it's been roughly three weeks since Hinata and Kageyama butted heads.
Here.
Thanks.
Thank you!
Even though they're practicing together, they still aren't talking.
All right!
A service ace!
It might be slow going,
but everyone is starting to make fewer mistakes.
And they narrow the point gap with every set they play.
Fukurodani                    Karasuno
I can only marvel at everyone's daily progress.
I was a bit worried about how spiritless Tsukishima was,
but apparently that's just how he usually looks.
Asahi, give us another good one like that!
Give us a good serve.
Although he must be exhausted, I'm a bit relieved to see he's still playing like he usually does.
However...
Damn it! It was short again!
Yes!
Don't worry about it! We'll get the next one!
I'm sorry!
Hinata and Kageyama's new
fast attack isn't going too well.
During this training camp—
Sorry!
During this training camp,
I'd like to see it succeed at least one time.
Thanks.
I keep running as I run out of breath
With dreams on my mind and a fire in my belly
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I feel like I'll be left behind in this world
If I come to a standstill
People ask me why I find joy in this
But I don't understand it myself
Running is the only thing on my mind
Even if nothing goes right in the future
I won't stop trying to find the best version of myself
Even if someone tells me that this is as far as I go
And draws the line on me
I'll say no, thank you, and surge on ahead
So what?
Whatever the future may bring
However people are supposed to act
So what?
It doesn't really matter
So I'm a believer
Episode Nine:
Vs. "Umbrella"
It's their first long series of away games, and the temperature just keeps rising.
It's about to get really rough for them.
Center!
Hinata, finish it off!
Sorry! It's too close to the net!
Damn it!
All right!
Everyone else is getting better.
Even Tsukishima had a moment where he looked different.
I'm the only one who hasn't improved!
I don't think I've ever seen Hinata look that bothered by something.
Yeah...
Nekoma                       Karasuno
Here's our chance!
Got it!
It's a chance for a fast attack!
I'll definitely...
get it this time!
Nice job!
Well done, Hina—
Hey!
You held back, didn't you?!
Held... back?
Me? At volleyball?
Say that again.
Hey, come on.
Excuse me. Can we get a timeout?
That wasn't the falling set.
Huh? It wasn't?
No idea.
You probably need an animal's instincts to tell.
It wasn't?
I mean, it technically may not have been...
I figure that all the sets so far have been falling down,
but the last one had more of a parabolic curve.
Which means Kageyama was trying to make sure Hinata hit the ball, no matter what.
Kageyama, calm down.
Hinata hasn't comfortably hit a spike for a while now.
That's pretty stressful for a spiker.
Kageyama may've subconsciously been
worried that Hinata would lose his rhythm.
But, Hinata...
Calm down, already!
I'm impressed you could tell,
but is that really something to get angry about?!
Don't you dare fight here!
He was just making sure you didn't miss!
Did I subconsciously back down just now?
Don't give up, Kageyama!
I told you to gather 'round!
Are you really giving Shorty the kind of set he wants?
Have you even tried to?
What are you doing, Kageyama?
Starting tonight, I'm not practicing with you.
And I obviously won't be using the
new fast attack during our matches.
What?!
Th-Their relationship has gotten even worse?
You're the one who said that I shouldn't give up.
There's no point in practicing together right now.
Uh, um...
Okay!
Kenma, set for me some!
What?
Huh?
Kageyama started training by himself again.
I can't lose!
There's only one thing I need to do right now!
Learn how to fight the blocks in mid-air by myself!
Third Gymnasium
Oh? Did you bring a friend today, Tsukki?
Pardon?
What happened to your partner?
Kageyama's practicing by himself again.
I tried to have Kenma set for me, but he bailed after just five!
It's pretty amazing that he stuck around for even that many.
So...
Please let me practice with you!
Lev!
Oh, Hinata.
I thought you were doing receiving practice with Yaku, Lev.
He said I was doing well today, so he let me go early!
Really? Sure you didn't run away?
Hey, have you seen Lev?
Maybe he's in the bathroom.
No, of course not!
He said you said it was okay and went running off.
I didn't say that!
Well, whatever.
All right...
Since we have the right number of people,
let's play some three-on-three.
What?
Yay!
A match!
Owls                 Cats
Um...
Aren't these teams a bit unbalanced?
Whoa!
I'm together with the ace and setter from one of Tokyo's powerhouse schools!
And... I'm up versus Tsukishima!
It's fine! Let's do something we can't do in the afternoons!
Woo-hoo!
And when I looked over,
there was a giant rhinoceros beetle! I totally freaked out!
Oh, I saw a stag beetle too.
Lev!
I told you to jump after seeing where the set is going!
Read blocking!
Oh, right!
Blockers, try not to jump horizontally if you can!
Wow, he got it!
If you can make it in time,
come to a stop and then jump straight up!
Right!
We have a chance here!
Come to a stop
and jump straight up.
Damn it!
Bring it again!
Um...
If you don't wrap up soon,
the cafeteria will close, and you won't get any dinner.
We can't fight on an empty stomach.
It's time to eat!
Shorty.
We'll continue tomorrow. Got it?
Right!
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
Wake up!
Let me sleep a little longer...
Cafeteria
Thanks for the food!
How is it that you eat so much
without growing taller even a little?
Mff mmmm mrrrf.
Yeah... I didn't understand a single word you just said.
Ubugawa                         Karasuno
Goura, give us another good serve!
It's way off! Kageyama, it's all on you!
Hinata!
Tanaka, just spike it!
You got it!
Sorry! I overcompensated!
Ubugawa                         Karasuno
Thank you for the match!
Let's go! Penalty sprint!
Yessir!
Tanaka, you run double!
That's not fair!
That was close.
You know...
Go!
They've changed a bit.
I'm starving...
Same.
I'm so hungry that I'm starting to feel sick.
Same here.
But seriously...
I wonder how long they're gonna keep going.
Next, please!
Damn it!
Kageyama, don't think of the bottle as a target.
Actually visualize it.
Visualize a spiker as best you can.
Visualize a spiker...
Oh, by the way, when you're going against a spiker one-on-one,
you generally don't stand in front of their body.
Center yourself on their dominant arm instead.
Oh!
Um...
We're technically opponents as soon as we're in a match, right?
Why are you giving us advice?
Well, I've just always been a really nice person.
You don't have to look at me like that.
I want to make sure the Battle of the Garbage Dumpster happens again.
All right, let's drink!
It's what our coach wants more than anything.
Yes!
Huh? Where did Keishin go?
But who knows how much longer he'll keep coaching?
He's apparently coaching some of his players.
So because of that, we need you guys to keep winning too.
What? Get him over here, Takeda!
Yes, sir.
Anyway, this helps me get better too, so don't sweat the small stuff.
Come on! Practice!
Owls                 Cats
Akaashi, cover it!
Sorry, it's a bit short!
Surround him! And make the block wide!
Dammit, you're still ridiculously huge for a first-year!
He hit the block on purpose?
One more time!
You'd better make this set a good one, Akaashi!
Yes! Hey, hey, hey!
W-Was that... on purpose?!
When you lightly tapped it against the blocker's hand!
Yep! It's a rebound!
A rebound?
That's so cool!
Is it? It is, isn't it?!
You sure are good at flattering the airhead, Shorty.
If your balance is off,
or you feel like you'll definitely get blocked if you try to spike,
you hit the ball against the blockers on purpose so it rebounds and you can set up again.
That said, it usually fails and the ball just gets hit down.
That happens to you a lot, Bokuto.
Akaashi, that was your cue to say,
"That hasn't happened as much lately"!
Spiking isn't all about slamming the ball into the floor.
If you stay calm, you'll see the way to fight!
Oh, that hasn't happened as much lately, Bokuto.
You're late, Akaashi!
Owls                  Cats
All right!
Nice one, Akaashi!
Shorty, I'm counting on you to finish it!
Right!
Ah! Hey!
Crowding him like that is so cruel!
This isn't merely a wall.
It's an umbrella.
There isn't anywhere you can hit it.
If you stay calm,
you'll see the way to fight.
He hit it up?!
Ow...
Did you actually aim that spike?
That was an amazing wipe!
It's true that I aimed at the tip of Lev's hand...
What?!
But it was just coincidence that it hit him.
I can't hit that accurately—
That was a triple-block of 190-cm blockers, you know?
Not to mention how terrible the set was!
Well done! I'm moved!
To the little warrior going up against the two-meter tall wall, I—
Talk about over-exaggerating.
Somehow 190 cm turned into two meters.
I shall give you a new special attack.
A special attack?!
Here's the next one!
Slot five.
One more.
You must be tired after all this, Hitoka.
Are you all right?
Yes! I'm sorry!
Today's the last day, so let's do our best.
Right!
Morning, Hinata!
Morning, Yachi!
Man, I'm starving!
Oh, yeah...
You sure are full of energy this morning.
You were up late practicing too, weren't you?
Yeah, but I just woke up.
How are things shaping up?
I'm practicing something super-duper awesome right now, so look forward to it!
"Super-duper awesome," huh?
What the heck, Tsukishima?!
Nothing.
Hey! Someone wake up Yamaguchi!
About the thing I was telling you earlier...
Yes, it's all been taken care of.
It should arrive around noon.
I see.
For real?!
Nekoma                       Fukurodani
We can't seem to win against Fukurodani much.
Give us a good one!
I did a quick summary of the current scores!
Got it!
Thanks!
Right!
Shibayama's pretty handy.
Left!
Wins
Losses
Fukurodani
Wins
Losses
Nekoma
Wins
Losses
Ubugawa
Wins
Losses
Shinzen
Wins
Losses
Karasuno
Wins
Losses
Fukurodani's currently leading, huh?
Not much of a surprise.
All right!
Ubugawa                        Karasuno
Looks like Ubugawa and Karasuno finished.
One lap of diving drills!
Yessir!
They have a strange dignity about them when they take their penalty lap.
Including the previous trip, they've done multiple
times more penalty laps than any other team here.
I definitely couldn't do it.
Another lap!
Whoa! Karasuno's Shorty has gotten really good at diving receives!
"Shorty"?
Yaku, you're almost the same height as Hinata.
Lev, stand over there!
There was no saving him from that.
I told him not to mention Yaku's height.
What an idiot.
Damn it! Are we just gonna keep on losing until the very end?
Don't give up, guys!
We have to survive.
Daichi?
I just happened to overhear this,
so I thought I should keep quiet, but...
Wh-What is it?!
When all of these practice matches are over...
the coaches are apparently going to treat us to a barbecue!
Bar...
...be...
...cue?!
Akaashi, who do we play next?
Karasuno.
Karasuno, huh?
What?
Well, they're sort of the hardest to play against.
You can never tell what the hell they've got up their sleeve.
But it does look like they're getting pretty tired.
Meat, meat, it's what I love to eat. Meat, meat.
Meat with a side of meat!
Meat, meat!
Hooray for meat! Energy times a hundred!
What the... They're terrifying.
Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
Meat is god! Meat is god!
Sir...
Did you not tell them about the barbecue?
It just says "meal" on the schedule.
Well, I guess all's well that ends well.
Hinata, do your best in the match.
Thanks!
I'll be looking forward to that
"super-duper awesome" thing.
Just you watch, jerk!
But...
I'd love to see that new fast attack of yours soon.
Me too.
Huh?
Kageyama!
I want to hit that falling set as soon as possible!
He just told you yesterday that you guys won't be doing that fast attack...
Don't rush it.
As long as I'm messing up the sets, it won't help you practice at all.
What?!
And I told you, how you want to hit it doesn't matter for that fast attack!
I'll give you sets that won't be stopped by blocks!
That's how he sounded before,
but Kageyama actually respects Hinata!
I was thinking this yesterday too,
but you're really scary when you're acting considerate.
I get it, but give me that set soon! I wanna hit it!
That's why I'm practicing it so hard, you moron!
And Hinata firmly believes that Kageyama will definitely make the set something they can use.
Oh.
So that's why he got so mad before!
He thought that it was something Kageyama could surely do,
but Kageyama had a moment of doubt!
How long are you going to make me wait?
Hinata and Tsukishima call Kageyama "King,"
but today,
it looks like the crown is on Hinata's head.
I demand the best set from thee!
Fukurodani                       Karasuno
Anyway, I don't care which one of the
new things you're working on you choose,
but go make one of them feel good and land!
Yessir!
Also, I say this every time,
but don't let Fukurodani's number four have a field day.
Right.
Yessir!
In the end, this camp may've been mostly just running penalty laps,
but compared to the first one,
all of you should've changed in some way.
Take this as a chance to have a refreshing victory, and then let's eat some tasty meat!
Yeah!
We climb the mountain in our way
Losing more than just time in the process
Tasting freedom makes us want to fly
And notice the feelings welling up inside
It's almost in our reach
The closer we get, the more it shines
And stretches out in front of our eyes
That panorama created just for us
Until I reach the top and come back down, my lungs will keep breathing
But now I've been possessed by the desire to climb that summit once again
We cast aside all our doubt and set flight to the skies
Our flailing hands reach out and grab hold of the moment
That special moment
Come to us climbers
Come to us right now
Man, meat is the best.
And nothing goes better with it than rice.
I like eating those together too!
Throw in a salad, and it's perfect.
All right! Let's win this match and eat some delicious food!
Yeah!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
Episode Ten:
Gears
"Gears."